---
icon: lucide/bot
---

# AI Policy

!!! note "Note on Plugins"

    The policy laid out here does not apply to [Studio Plugin](/studio/plugins/store/) contributions.
    This is primarily due to the fact that Plugins are meant to facilitate rapid development and research-style code.
    We do, however, encourage Plugin developers to consider following some of the guidelines discussed here.

This document defines RuleFlow's policy regarding AI-generated content. This policy applies to all aspects of the RuleFlow project, including all the GitHub repositories under the organization.

For the purposes of this document, _content_ is defined as any contribution to the RuleFlow organization, both code and non-code, including but not limited to:

- Code submitted for inclusion in RuleFlow software, or other organization-owned repositories
- Documentation of any kind
- Communication content (e.g. issues, discussions, pull request descriptions, and reviews)

We want to explicitly lay out our AI policy here so that all users have a clear understanding that the software they use is fully human-created, even if assisted by certain AI technologies. We believe that this is crucial to facilitate a robust and healthy codebase; one in which bugs can be tracked and understood.

We recognize that the use of AI in open source software raises many difficult questions and acknowledge that views, approaches, and technical capabilities are rapidly changing. 
We invite comments and further discussion (via our [discussion channels](https://github.com/orgs/RuleFlow-OSS/discussions)) and expect to periodically review this policy.

## Policy overview

RuleFlow does not accept any substantial uses of AI-generated content in contributions.

AI tools may be used in limited cases, for example when it is used for small amounts of AI-assisted code (e.g. autocompletion using copilot, cursor, etc...)
or for language translation purposes. **Such uses must always be declared.**

Please understand the reviewing capacity is very limited for the project, so large PRs which appear to not have the requisite understanding might not get reviewed, and eventually closed or redirected.
Understanding from authors about what code they are contributing and how it fits into the larger picture is crucial.
If reviewers feel there is a lack of understanding from looking at the code, PR descriptions or just general interactions with a contributor, we reserve the right to close the PR to save time and resources.
Given the limited reviewing capacity, time and effort of reviewing and educating contributors will be more targeted to PRs of initial high quality and/or contributors where interactions are constructive and of good quality.

## Policy details

#### 0. AI usage must always be declared

All contributions must be fully transparent about any AI usage. Failure to disclose AI use (e.g. in pull request description details)
may be queried by other developers and may be considered non-compliance with this policy.

If we suspect that AI tools were used as part of a contribution, RuleFlow developers may ask you for clarification.
Please do not take offense if this happens to you, distinguishing between AI-generated and human-authored content is increasingly difficult!

#### 1. Fully generated code is not allowed

Fully AI-generated contributions, such as content generated by prompting a large language model (e.g. claude code or chatgpt) or produced by any agentic AI system are not permitted in the RuleFlow codebase.

Some limited exceptions are described in sections #2 and #3 for integrated development environments (IDEs) and language translation.

#### 2. Limited AI assistance exemption: IDEs and autocompletion

AI tools are now so deeply integrated into many modern development environments, and it may be impractical to avoid them entirely.
We recognize that this is particularly true for modern integrated development environments (IDEs), which may use AI to power features like autocompletion.

In these limited cases of code generation, typically ranging from a single variable to a couple of lines of code,
AI assistance is deemed acceptable. However, if code generation exceeds minimal, sporadic amounts (e.g. repeated or large multi-line blocks),
it would be considered fully AI-generated and, as defined in section #1, is not acceptable.

As per section #0, it is your responsibility to report the extent of AI assistance you used.

#### 3. Limited AI assistance exemption: language translation

RuleFlow aims to foster an inclusive environment for all contributors and users. We recognize that language barrier can limit participation
in open-source projects, particularly for non-native English speakers.

Whilst we prefer you communicate with us in your own words (and languages if needed), we acknowledge that AI-based translation tools may sometimes
be necessary for communicating in issues / discussions. If such tools are used, we ask you to disclose their use and purpose.

#### 4. Contributors are responsible authors and must be aware of, and declare, any derivate work

Contributors are responsible for the content and provenance of every aspect of their contribution, including any design decisions.
Contributors must be aware of whether their work derives from external sources / codebases and must declare any derivative work.

#### 5. Human reviewers are required

All code merged into RuleFlow repositories must be reviewed by a human reviewer. Instructions / suggestions from human reviewers always take precedence over those of non-human reviewers.

#### 6. Consequences for failure to comply to this policy

Any failures to comply with this policy should be reported to the RuleFlow core developers through
our [standard communications channels](https://github.com/orgs/RuleFlow-OSS/discussions).
The core developers may enforce this policy through a range of actions, which may include restricting or banning individuals from future contributions.

There is a zero tolerance policy for intentionally failing to disclose or misrepresenting the extent of AI usage.

## Acknowledgements

We acknowledge the [MDAnalysis AI policy](https://github.com/MDAnalysis/mdanalysis/blob/develop/AI_POLICY.md) for providing insight in shaping this policy.
